# Beer Application
## Table of contents
* [General info](#general-info)
* [Technologies](#technologies)
* [Setup & Run](#setup-&-run)
* [Status](#status)

## General info
This is project to manage and support participants during beer day fest! 

## Technologies
Current technical features:
1. Getting and managing breweries and beers
2. Getting and managing users existing within application and their privileges
3. User authentication via login endpoint
4. Implemented gathering logs mechanism 
5. Implemented version control system for DB 
6. Added dockerfile and docker-compose to run app.
7. Added code validator to measure code coverage and detects codesmells

The list of available endpoints is generated by swagger (*/swagger-ui/index.html) 

List of used technologies and tools:
* Java 11
* Spring Boot
* Spring Data JPA
* Spring AOP
* Spring Security
* Spring validation
* Lombok
* Docker / Docker-Compose
* Liquibase
* Swagger
* SLF4J
* H2
* MySQL
* Mockito
* JUnit 5
* SonarQube

## Setup & Run

To run this application you need to first clone this repository. Then you can run this app in two ways:

#### DOCKER-COMPOSE (preferred solution)

Use docker-compose to run app. Make sure you have installed docker and docker-compose on you local environment. 
When you clone this repository you need to provide '.env' file with basic configuration. 
Reuse existing file '.env.template' and provide your values or leave it as default. Then, open terminal in project directory, and run command:

    "docker-compose up"

This will trigger creating containers with beer API and MySQL database including your values. The app will be available at localhost:8081/api/v1/ (if you keep default values).

#### RUN WITH TEST PROFILE

You can also run this app with 'test' profile. This mode has embedded H2 database with sample data. First you need to configure credentials to DB.
The template of credentials and instruction are placed in './credentials/credentials.yml.template'.

After that, build package using maven tool. To build app use the following command:
    
    "mvn package"

Then, go to just generated 'target' directory and run app using command line:

    "java -jar beer-project-1.0.jar --spring.profiles.active=test"

The full list of endpoints you can see here: [/localhost:8081/api/v1/swagger-ui/index.html](/localhost:8081/api/v1/swagger-ui/index.html)


### Status


